Hello my friends.
All right.
Let us start the implementation of the upper confidence balance algorithm.
So we're gonna make it step by step and you're going to implement each of the steps first before we
do it together.
And that first step.
You know I've prepared this slide here we're going to have a look at it many times.
The first step is that at each round you know for each user because a round corresponds to a user we
consider two numbers for each add.
I know from one to 10 this first number and i n which is the number of times to add I was selected up
to round and so make sure to understand the indexes here and the variables and then are i n which is
the sum of reward of the add number I up to round.
Okay so the first step that I would like you to do you know and I'm going to ask you to press buzz on
this video.
The first item I'm going to ask you to do is to make these two variables you know create two variables
for these numbers the number of times that I was selected up to round n and the sum of rewards of that
I up to round it.
So create these two variables and then also in the same step one I would like you to create other variables.
The first one is the total number of users to whom we will show one of the ads and that's 10000.
So I would like you to put this 10000 value in a variable that you can call capital N then I would like
you to create another variable for the number of ads we have meaning 10 and you can call this variable
lowercase d after this please create a variable that will contain the list of the selected ads over
the round so you know it will start as an empty list and will become a D and a list of thousand elements
corresponding to the 10000 ads that were selected to the 10000 users successively then please create
these two variables.
So this first one and i n you can call it numbers of selections and you have to of course initialize
it as a list of 10 elements only containing zeros.
And I will show you a trick to do that easily and for the second variable are I and you can call it
sums of rewards and same you have to initialize it as a list of 10 elements but initialized with 10
zeros and we will populate these two lists over the rounds.
Okay.
And finally I'd like you to create one last variable which is the total reward and which will simply
be the sum of all the reward received at each round because it's important to remember that the zeros
and ones in the dataset are in fact the rewards.
You know the single rewards received at each round if the user clicks the ad then we get a reward of
one at a particular round.
And if the user doesn't leave yet we get a reward of zero.
We get no reward basically.
Okay.
And the total reward here that I would like you to create as a final variable will be the accumulated
reward meaning the sum of all the rewards collected over the round.
All right.
So let's do this please press pause on the video and in a second we will implement a solution together
all right.
Welcome back.
Let's do this so first let's create a new Kotel and let us create each of these variables one by one.
So at first we said that we wanted to have a variable for the total number of users or total number
of rounds over which we're going to show adds to the users.
So there we go we want to call it n capital and equals and that's ten thousand.
All right.
Ten thousand.
Yes.
Then we said we wanted to have a variable for the number of add meaning 10.
And we want to call it variable lowercase d equals 10.
Perfect.
Then as we said we want to have the full list of the ads that are selected over the round so you know
at first this will be an empty list.
And over the rounds it will get bigger and bigger.
Up to at the end it will be a list of 10000 elements.
And the end element will be the ad selected at round.
All right.
So we're going to call this variable at underscore selected.
And this will be initialized as an empty list just like that at selected.
All right then next one while the next two ones are these two you know and i n number of times the ad
I was selected at around n and r i n the sum of rewards of the ad I up to round n.
So for the first one we will call it numbers of selections.
And since we want to have these numbers of selections you know these numbers of times each ad was selected
for all the ads.
Well this will be initialized as a list but not an empty list but a list of 10 zeros.
And the trick to initialize this list of 10 zeroes efficiently is to just adhere Times T.
All right.
Just like that this will initialize this list as a list of 10 zeros.
And then each time we select an ad for example ad number three.
Well the third element of this list will be incremented by 1.
All right.
So at first it will be zero.
Then let's say at number three selected it will become one.
Then let's say at number five a selected will replace you by one.
And then you know each round it is incremented each time and you add is selected.
OK.
And at the end we hopefully want to see one ad that is selected way more than the others.
And UCB will figure it out.
OK.
Then next very well you know this one the sum of rewards of the add up to an end.
Well same here we want to have these sums of rewards for each of the ads to run.
And therefore we're going to create another list which we're going to call sums of rewards right.
And same this will be initialized as a list of 10 0.
So I'm just copying and pasting this.
All right.
That's the same.
And of course at first round well each ad has a sum of rewards equal to zero.
Because at the beginning no ad is selected and therefore no reward is collected.
Then as we said we want to have a final variable which is the total reward accumulated over the rounds.
You know with the different ads we select at each round and let's call this variable total underscore.
Reward.
And of course we have to initialize it as zero because in the first round well no ads is selected yet
and therefore no reward is collected.
OK good.
So we have all the parameters all initialized correctly.
And now what do you think will be the next step.
Well of course the next step will be to start a for loop which will iterate through all the different
round you know starting from Round Zero because you know in Python indexes start from zero up to round
10000.
And that each round well we will follow these two steps.
You know we will compute the average reward of add up to run.
And then we will get a confidence interval and in steps we will select the ad that has the maximum upper
confidence about you know the higher upper confidence belt.
All right.
So you will see this will be very easy.
We will just follow these steps and I will ask you to implement them first.
But no worries I will guide you.
And so now let's take a little break because this follow up will actually take a few lines of code.
So make sure to have good energy for this and then let us match this together.
Until then enjoy machine learning.